agon: A musical or gymnastic contest.
anagnoresis: A recognition of events.
anapests: In poetry, a metrical foot consisting of two short syllables and one long syllable.
antistrophe: A choral song sung by the chorus as it moved or danced from right to left.  See also strophe; epode. 
auletes: A person who played an aulos, a double ﬂute, usually in the orchestra.
aulos: The double ﬂute, which accompanied lyric passages.
chorus: A group of singers that usually represented some group, such as the elders of a city. Sophocles used a chorus of ﬁfteen singers. They often comment on the action and sometimes can be seen as the voice of the poet.
coryphaeus: The chorus leader.
deuteragonist: The second actor. The ﬁrst actor was the protagonist; the third, the tritagonist.
dithyramb: A choral song, sung by A chorus of ﬁfty to honor Dionysus. There were dithyramb competitions at the Great Dionysia.
dochmiac: A meter used to indicate intense emotion, consisting of one short syllable, followed by two long syllables and a short syllable.
eccyclema: A wheeled device used to display an interior scene in ancient tragedy.
episode: A part of the drama between choral songs.
epode: A choral song sometime added to the strophe and antistrophe in a di√erent meter, and recited by the chorus standing still.
exode (exodus): A scene not followed by choral song.
iambic trimeter: The basic meter of Greek tragedy, consisting of three feet, containing a short syllable followed by a long syllable.
kommos: A lyric song between actors and chorus.
machina: A crane to lower and raise an actor playing a god onto the stage.
meter: The rhythm of Greek tragedy, consisting of metrical units called feet, made up of short and long syllables.
monody: A lyric song, sung by one actor, usually a lament.
orchestra: The round semicircle of the theater in front of the stage. The word means ‘‘place for dancing.’’
parode: The ﬁrst song of the chorus.
parodos (parodoi): A side ramp for entrances and exits.
peripeteia: A reversal of fortune.
prologue: The ﬁrst part of the tragedy, before the chorus enters.
protagonist: The ﬁrst, or main, actor.
satyr play: The fourth play presented by an author. It was short and satiric.
skene: A stage building at the rear of the orchestra. It had a door from which actors could enter and exit, and it could represent a location, such as a palace.
stasimon: A song sung after the chorus has entered the orchestra.
stichomythia: A rapid dialogue between two actors, often consisting of half lines or single lines.
strophe: A choral song sung by the chorus as it moved or danced from left to right.
tetralogy: A set of four plays, consisting of three plays, called a trilogy, and a fourth play, the satyr play, presented at the Great Dionysia.
theologeion: A raised device from where the god might speak.
trochaic trimeter: A meter, accompanied by the aulos, consisting of a long syllable followed by a short syllable.
theatron: The seats in which the audience sat to view the tragedy.
